https://www.tomshardware.com/news/rog-x670e-extreme-gen-5-m2-riser
 
 
 
 [IE]><script>window.isIE = true</script><![endif] 
 
 Skip to main content 
  contentType : // 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 Tom's Hardware   
 
 
 
 
 Search 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 RSS 
 
 
 
 
    (opens in new tab) 
 
    (opens in new tab) 
 
    (opens in new tab) 
 
    (opens in new tab) 
 
    (opens in new tab) 
 
 UK US Australia Canada 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Reviews 
 
 
 
 
 Best Picks 
 
 
 
 
 Raspberry Pi 
 
 
 
 
 CPUs 
 
 
 
 
 GPUs 
 
 
 
 
 Coupons 
 
 
 
More
 
 
 
 Laptops 
 
 
 SSDs 
 
 
 Motherboards 
 
 
 Cooling 
 
 
 Desktops 
 
 
 PC Builds 
 
 
 Monitors 
 
 
 RAM 
 
 
 PC Cases 
 
 
 Keyboards 
 
 
 Headsets 
 
 
 Mice 
 
 
 Power Supplies 
 
 
 3D Printers 
 
 
 VR Headsets 
 
 
 About Tom's Hardware 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Forums  (opens in new tab) 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 Trending Nvidia RTX 4090 Unboxing Intel 13th-Gen Raptor Lake AMD Ryzen 7000 Intel Arc A770 
 
 Tom's Hardware is supported by its audience. When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission.  Here’s why you can trust us . 
 
 
 
 
 
 Home 
 News 
 
 
 ROG X670E Crosshair Extreme Rocks All-New Gen 5 M.2 SSD Riser Card 
 
 
  By  Aaron Klotz      published  16 September 2022 
 
 The new riser card doubles the Extreme's M.2 slot capacity 
 
 
 
 
    (opens in new tab) 
 
 
 
    (opens in new tab) 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
  (opens in new tab) 
 
 
 
    (opens in new tab) 
 
 
 
    (opens in new tab) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Comments (9) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (Image credit: Asus) 
 
 
 
 
 Thanks to a Tweet by  @momomo_us,  we have our first detailed look at Asus' brand new ROG Gen-Z.2 M.2 riser card that comes with the new AM5 ROG  Crosshair X670E Extreme  (opens in new tab)  motherboard. What makes the new card so special is added support for PCIe Gen 5 SSDs. The Gen-Z.2 is a proprietary PCIe card designed to slot into supported Asus motherboards. The card features two M.2 slots on either side, with one supporting Gen 4 speeds and the other Gen 5. Both slots support a maximum length of 110mm SSDs, but the Gen 5 slot gets its own dedicated passive heatsink cooler to aid in cooling more power-hungry Gen 5 SSDs. The card sports an all-black finish to match the color scheme of Asus' ROG Crosshair motherboards, and will sit perpendicular to the DDR5 slots to the right of supported motherboards when installed. The stealthy color scheme of the Gen-Z.2 should aid users looking for a streamlined aesthetic, where the DDR5 modules can stand out from the somewhat bulky M.2 card. The added heatsink will also substantially improve the cooling performance of M.2 SSDs sitting in the primary Gen 5 slot compared to SSDs sitting within the motherboard. The built-in heatsink has direct access to airflow from the front intake fans of a computer case, and is aided by the exhaust airflow from a CPU tower cooler.  The GenZ.2 card will also improve the X670E Crosshair Extreme's M.2 storage capacity quite a bit, and will double the board's M.2 slot capacity from two to four --three of which support PCIe Gen 5. This is not to mention the additional PCIe 5.0 M.2 card that the Extreme ships with, further increasing the board's M.2 capacity. PCIe Gen 5 SSDs will be out coming soon, with launch dates for some drives as early as October. But don't get your hopes high just yet; these first-generation variants will not be able to saturate the full bandwidth of four PCIe 5.0 lanes and will be limited to just  10GBps to 12.4GBps.  Nonetheless, these first-gen drives will be much faster than the best PCIe Gen 4 drives on the market today. Even faster PCIe 5 SSDs are expected to arrive in 2023. 
 
 Aaron Klotz Freelance News Writer Aaron Klotz is a freelance writer for Tom’s Hardware US, covering news topics related to computer hardware such as CPUs, and graphics cards. 
 
  stuffs  
 
 
 
  stuffs  
 
 
 
  stuffs  
 
 
  Drop in a standard article here maybe?  
 
 
 
 
 
 Topics 
 
 Motherboards 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 See all comments (9) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 9 Comments 
 
 Comment from the forums 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Alvar "Miles" Udell 
 
 
So a flush M.2 mount with heatsink and small fan was a bad idea?
 
 
 
 Reply 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 sycoreaper 
 
 
With everything needing risers, substantial power and more extreme cooling, I think the next logical step is to redesign the traditional desktop tower/case.
 
 
 
 Reply 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 8086 
 
 
This should be the future moving forward, free up mobo space, add more PCI-E x16 slots (full electrical) and let users customize their storage, sound, and networking peripherals.
 
 
 
 Reply 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 who_farted 
 
 
give it time RGB is coming
 
 
 
 Reply 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 IceQueen0607 
 
 
Wont this take away 4 PCIe lanes from the GPU?
 
 
 
 Reply 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Xajel 
 
 
 Alvar Miles Udell  said: So a flush M.2 mount with heatsink and small fan was a bad idea? 
Yeah, for 4 & more M.2 you'll need to step up the size of the motherboard. 
 
Some next-gen MATX motherboards only have 2 PCIe slots because of flush mount M.2... And yes, the 2x PCIe slots includes the graphics one, so you only get one PCIe slot if you have a dGPU. 
 
And high-end consumer motherboards started to move to E-ATX just 2-3 years ago because of the increased M.2 slots and the extra amount of integrated goodies. 
 
Not to mention the move to ATX12VO were the motherboard will require more space to have the extra voltage conversion.
 
 
 
 Reply 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Mandark 
 
 
 Alvar Miles Udell  said: So a flush M.2 mount with heatsink and small fan was a bad idea? This is the way it should have always been that flash stuff mounted to the motherboard is stupid cause it’s too much heat
 
 
 
 Reply 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ezst036 
 
 
 sycoreaper  said: With everything needing risers, substantial power and more extreme cooling, I think the next logical step is to redesign the traditional desktop tower/case. 
This didn't need a riser. This could easily be a 16x PCIe card. If it needs more power, an SATA or Molex would be just fine. That's how video cards used to be before they got their own dedicated connectors. 
 
Proprietary interfaces is a huge step in the wrong direction. We buy Asus or others specifically because we don't want Apple.
 
 
 
 Reply 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 sycoreaper 
 
 
 ezst036  said: This didn't need a riser. This could easily be a 16x PCIe card. If it needs more power, an SATA or Molex would be just fine. That's how video cards used to be before they got their own dedicated connectors. 
 
Proprietary interfaces is a huge step in the wrong direction. We buy Asus or others specifically because we don't want Apple. 
I don't disagree, remember when phones all had different power adapters? That's where we'd be heading with proprietary adapters and cables.  
 
Irregardless, I think it's time that traditional rectangular cases be redesigned and optimized for modern PC components. We are try so hard to optimize PCs cooling in a case design from the 80s. Something less conventional will undoubtedly make cooling easier and more efficient.
 
 
 
 Reply 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 View All 9 Comments 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Show more comments  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Be In the Know 
 
 
 
 Get instant access to breaking news, in-depth reviews and helpful tips. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Contact me with news and offers from other Future brands
 
 
 
 
 
Receive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsors
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Thank you for signing up to Tom's Hardware. You will receive a verification email shortly. 
 
 
 There was a problem. Please refresh the page and try again. 
 
 
 By submitting your information you agree to the  Terms & Conditions  (opens in new tab)  and  Privacy Policy  (opens in new tab)  and are aged 16 or over. 
 
 
 
 
 
 MOST POPULAR MOST SHARED 1 Best Monitor Deals for Prime Day October: 4K, Gaming, More 2 AMD Ryzen 9 7900X Review: Zen 4 Has a Pricing Problem 3 How To Resize Images in GIMP 4 Best Filaments for 3D Printing 5 Intel's Alder Lake BIOS Source Code Reportedly Leaked Online 1 Best CPU Deals for Prime Day October: Save on AMD and Intel 2 Best Monitor Deals for Prime Day October: 4K, Gaming, More 3 AMD Ryzen 9 7900X Review: Zen 4 Has a Pricing Problem 4 How To Resize Images in GIMP 5 Best Filaments for 3D Printing 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Tom's Hardware is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher.  Visit our corporate site  (opens in new tab) . 
 
 
 Terms and conditions  (opens in new tab) 
 Privacy policy  (opens in new tab) 
 Cookies policy  (opens in new tab) 
 Accessibility Statement  (opens in new tab) 
 Advertise  (opens in new tab) 
 About us  (opens in new tab) 
 Coupons  (opens in new tab) 
 Careers  (opens in new tab) 
 
 
 ©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036.  
 
 
    Begin comScore Tag  
 
  End comScore Tag  
 
 
 
 
  Google Tag Manager  
 
  End Google Tag Manager  
 
  document assets - added by the article itself  
   
 
 
 
 
  