https://www.techradar.com/news/1000tb-ssds-could-become-mainstream-by-2030-as-samsung-plans-1000-layer-nand
 
 
 
 [IE]><script>window.isIE = true</script><![endif] 
 
 Skip to main content 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TechRadar   IT Insights for Business 
 
 
   
 
 Search 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 Subscribe 
 
 
 
 RSS 
 
 
 
 
    (opens in new tab) 
 
    (opens in new tab) 
 
    (opens in new tab) 
 
    (opens in new tab) 
 
 Asia India Singapore Middle East Europe Danmark Suomi Norge Sverige UK Italia Nederland België (Nederlands) France Deutschland España North America US (English) Canada US (Español) Australasia Australia New Zealand 
 
 
 
 
 Technology Magazines  (opens in new tab)  (opens in new tab) Why subscribe? The best tech tutorials and in-depth reviews Try a single issue or save on a subscription Issues delivered straight to your door or device From $12.99  (opens in new tab) View  (opens in new tab) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
News
 
 
 
 
Reviews
 
 
 
 
Website builders
 
 
 
 
Features
 
 
 
 
Web hosting
 
 
 
 
Dell SB
 
 
 
 
Perimeter 81
 
 
 
 
Security
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 Trending Windows 11 for business Best hybrid working tech Microsoft Teams updates Latest Mobile news Office 2021 
 
 TechRadar is supported by its audience. When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission.  Here’s why you can trust us . 
 
 
 
 
 
 Home 
 News 
 Computing 
 
 
 1000TB SSDs could become mainstream by 2030 as Samsung plans 1000-layer NAND 
 
 
  By  Desire Athow      last     updated  6 October 2022 
 
 1Tb TLC V-NAND coming soon as Samsung accelerates QLC transition 
 
 
 
 
    (opens in new tab) 
 
 
 
    (opens in new tab) 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
    (opens in new tab) 
 
 
 
    (opens in new tab) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (Image credit: Samsung) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Audio player loading…   
 
 
 Samsung Electronics has revealed its roadmap for its  SSD  ecosystem at the 2022 Samsung Tech Day and it looks tasty.  It has plans to “stack over 1,000 layers” in its most advanced NAND chip by 2030 although it has stopped short of revealing whether it would be actual products available on shelves (if these are still around by the end of the decade), products shipped to customers (like  Teamgroup ) or samples in its labs. Still, the prospect of having an SSD with 1,000-layer NAND is a particularly enticing one at a time when numerous storage technologies ( hard disk drives ,  silica ,  tapes ,  DNA , you name it) are trying to displace the medium as the hottest property in the world of bits and bytes. Our SSD/HDD guides (Image credit: Future) Best external hard drives : Expand your storage easily  
 Best rugged hard drives : Protect your data on the go  
 Best secure drives : Keep your data intact  
 Best portable SSDs : Solid, fast and compact  
 Best NAS drives : Data resilience for businesses SK Hynix and Micron announced earlier in 2022 that they would launch  238-layer  and  232-layer  products respectively which - on paper - will dramatically bring down the cost of Terabyte for solid state drives.  However, a caveat is that these timelines are likely to be elastic depending on demand and supply globally. The current economic situation worldwide may force companies to cut back on R&D and lengthen the gaps between product launches. The  average price of SSD  is at their lowest to date with 2TB SSDs widely available for less than $100 and experts have forecasted that SSD and HDD will reach parity on certain capacities by this time next year with the lucrative enterprise market being the only one more or less immune for now. 1PB SSD on the horizon? More layers not only mean cheaper products but also higher storage densities. Currently the world’s largest SSD is a 3.5-inch  100TB model from Nimbus Data , one which is using a 64-layer MLC chip; a 1024-layer TLC/QLC chip would pack 16 times more layer, which put a 1PB (1000TB) solid state drive solidly in the realm of possibilities before the end of this decade. Who needs that sort of capacity though?  Cloud storage  companies like  iDrive  or  BackBlaze , Hyperscalers like Google or Microsoft, social networks like Instagram or Facebook. In 2020, during an interview with TechRadar Pro,  Nimbus Data CEO Thomas Isakovich  suggested that much higher capacities (200TB and 400TB) could be reached by 2023 “depending on the timing of NAND density gains”. A 1PB SSD would be an order of magnitude bigger than what hard drive manufacturers have on their roadmaps. A  100TB hard disk drive is what Seagate expects to launch by 2030  with the current maximum capacity (as of October 2022) being  26TB . 30TB drives are likely to be the flagship capacity in 2023 and beyond that, increases are incremental rather than exponential. During the same event, Samsung announced that its 1Tb TLC V-NAND will be available to its customers by the end of 2022 with its next generation TLC T-NAND - likely to be 2Tb - slated for mass availability sometime in 2024. Following this trajectory, 4Tb, 8Tb and 16Tb NAND chips could go to market in 2026, 2028 and 2030 respectively. In parallel, its engineers are “accelerating” the transition to  QLC  with no words on PLC (penta-level cell).   
 
 Desire Athow Managing Editor, TechRadar Pro Désiré has been musing and writing about technology during a career spanning four decades. He dabbled in  website builders  and  web hosting  when DHTML and frames were in vogue and started narrating about the impact of technology on society just before the start of the Y2K hysteria at the turn of the last millennium. 
 
 
 See more Storage news
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Are you a pro? Subscribe to our newsletter 
 
 
 
 Sign up to theTechRadar Pro newsletter to get all the top news, opinion, features and guidance your business needs to succeed! 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Contact me with news and offers from other Future brands
 
 
 
 
 
Receive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsors
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Thank you for signing up to TechRadar. You will receive a verification email shortly. 
 
 
 There was a problem. Please refresh the page and try again. 
 
 
 By submitting your information you agree to the  Terms & Conditions  (opens in new tab)  and  Privacy Policy  (opens in new tab)  and are aged 16 or over. 
 
 
 
 
 
 MOST POPULAR MOST SHARED 1 Micro-LED 4K TVs aren't trying to kill OLED, they’re aiming at projectors 2 Google event recap: Pixel 7, 7 Pro, Pixel Watch and all the big announcements 3 You may not have to sell a body part to afford the Nvidia RTX 4090 after all 4 My days as a helpful meat shield are over, thanks to the Killer Klown horror game 5 Google Pixel 7 and Pixel 7 Pro: the 7 most exciting new camera features 1 We finally know what 'Wi-Fi' stands for - and it's not what you think 2 Dreamforce 2022 live: All the announcements from this year's show 3 Google’s new AI lets you turn words into HD videos 4 ‘Go small or go home’: HTC teases a new Vive VR headset 5 She-Hulk episode 8 just confirmed Netflix's Daredevil TV show is canon in the MCU 
 
 Technology Magazines  (opens in new tab) ●  (opens in new tab) The best tech tutorials and in-depth reviews From $12.99  (opens in new tab) View  (opens in new tab) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TechRadar is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher.  Visit our corporate site  (opens in new tab) . 
 
 
 About Us  (opens in new tab) 
 Contact Us  (opens in new tab) 
 Terms and conditions  (opens in new tab) 
 Privacy policy  (opens in new tab) 
 Cookies policy  (opens in new tab) 
 Advertise with us  (opens in new tab) 
 Web notifications  (opens in new tab) 
 Accessibility Statement 
 Careers  (opens in new tab) 
 
 
 ©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036.  
 
 
    Begin comScore Tag  
 
  End comScore Tag  
 
 
 
 
  Google Tag Manager  
 
  End Google Tag Manager  
 
  document assets - added by the article itself  
   
 
 
 
 
  