https://aphnetworks.com/reviews/adata-legend-960-1tb
 
 
 
      Skip to main content
     
 
  Header and Navbar  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Toggle navigation 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 APH Networks 
 
 Always Original 
 
 
 
 
  Navigation  
 
 
 
 Main navigation 
 
 
 Home 
 
 
 Reviews 
 
 
 Reports 
 
 
 Lounge 
 
 
 Tracker 
 
 
 
 
 
 End Navigation  
 
 
 
 
 End Header & Navbar  
  Top Slideshow  
  End Top slideshow  
 Highlighted 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 End Highlighted 
  Start Top Widget  
 End Top Widget  
  Page Title  
 
 
  start: Container  
 
 
 
 
 ADATA Legend 960 1TB Review (Page 1 of 10) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  End Page Title  
  layout  
 
  start: Container  
 
 Content top 
 End Content top 
 start:content  
 
 
 
 
 - Start Left SideBar  
 -End Right SideBar  
 - Start content  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 By: Jonathan Kwan 
October 7, 2022 
 I was recently at an event I was presenting in when the other panel member came up to me before the program started. "Jonathan!" she greeted me enthusiastically. "It is good to see you here!" I looked at her and I was a little taken aback. It was not because she looked weird or I am not used to public interactions -- she looked fine, and I am more than used to big crowds and meeting people in my day job. The problem was I had absolutely zero idea who she was, but somehow, she knew quite a few things about me and talked to me like I had known her previously. It took me a while to figure this one out, but two hours later on the drive back home, I finally remembered I met her once at an event in December 2019. Either she has incredibly awesome memory or I have somehow left an impression, but either way, people remember other people and things for a variety of reasons. This is why marketing is such a big discipline, and often times, the name and branding of a product helps people remember what it is all about. For example, ADATA has long been known as a consumer brand for computer memory products, and their XPG brand has been positioned as a performance or gaming enthusiast label. This means flagship products are typically released under the XPG brand, and we have seen such like the  Gammix S70 Blade 1TB  NVMe I reviewed last year. Today, we have yet another flagship NVMe SSD from the company, the Legend 960, which features Silicon Motion's new SM2264 controller. But strangely enough, it is sold under the ADATA brand, which really confused me at first, because I initially instinctually called this product the XPG Legend 960 rather than the ADATA Legend 960. The reason is because it is aimed at creative professionals, but regardless, given the name and branding, will this be a true flagship drive, or is there something we were missing? Read on to find out! 
 
 Our review unit of the ADATA Legend 960 1TB arrived in a small brown corrugated cardboard box from the ADATA's Taiwanese headquarters in New Taipei City. Using DHL Express Worldwide, the package arrived in excellent condition halfway across the world to us here in Calgary, Alberta, Canada for our review today. 
 
 Our review unit of the ADATA Legend 960 1TB came in its retail packaging. The Legend 960 is sold under the ADATA brand rather than the XPG brand as I have mentioned earlier, as this is aimed at creative professionals. I still find it slightly strange not only because of its performance credentials, but also the fact this product can be found on both websites. The ADATA Legend 960 1TB's retail box is predominantly black with gold and white text. A photo of the drive itself is in some prime real estate in the middle, in front of what looks like a splash of quicksilver. ADATA's logo is printed across the top, while the model name and product description is placed at the bottom left corner. The drive capacity is found at the opposite corner at the bottom. Miscellaneous information can be found on the remaining sides of the box. 
 Before we move on, let us take a look at the specifications of the ADATA Legend 960 1TB, as obtained from the manufacturer's website: 
 Capacity: 1TB 
Form factor: M.2 2280 
NAND Flash: 3D NAND 
Controller: SMI SM2264 
Dimensions (L x W x H): 
- 80 x 22 x 3.13mm / 3.15 x 0.87 x 0.13inch (with heatsink) 
- 80 x 22 x 2.15mm / 3.15 x 0.87 x 0.09inch (without heatsink) 
Weight: 
- 11g / 0.39oz (with heatsink) 
- 8g / 0.28oz (without heatsink) 
Interface: PCIe Gen4 x4 
Sequential Read (Max): Up to 7,400MB/s (PC/Laptop), Up to 6,400MB/s (PS5) 
Sequential Write (Max): Up to 6,000MB/s 
4KB Random Read IOPS(Max): Up to 730K 
4KB Random Write IOPS(Max): Up to 610K 
Operating temperature: 0°C - 70°C 
Storage temperature: -40°C - 85°C 
Shock resistance: 1500G/0.5ms 
MTBF: 2,000,000 hours 
Terabytes Written (TBW): 780TB 
Warranty: 5-year limited warranty 
 
 Opening the box reveals the ADATA Legend 960 1TB itself and a thin aluminum heatsink placed on a clear plastic tray. This is it -- out of the box, you will get nothing more than what you need, not even a manual or any type of product literature. Not that we need them anyway, of course. 
 Page Index 
1. Introduction, Packaging, Specifications 
2.  A Closer Look, Test System 
3.  Benchmark: AIDA64 Disk Benchmark 
4.  Benchmark: ATTO Disk Benchmark 
5.  Benchmark: Crystal Disk Mark 8.0 
6.  Benchmark: HD Tune Pro 5.70 
7.  Benchmark: PassMark PerformanceTest 10 
8.  Benchmark: PCMark 10 
9.  Benchmark: 3DMark 
10.  Conclusion 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 -End content  
 - Start Right SideBar  
 
 
 
 
 Latest News 
 
 
 Thermaltake launched the Brand New Toughpower SFX Series 
 
 
 Hacker steals $570 million of crypto tokens from Binance’s BNB Chain 
 
 
 TikTok Bulks Up Video-Editing Tools, Embraces Stories With 'Photo Mode' 
 
 
 Pixel 7, Pixel 7 Pro and Pixel Watch: Everything Google Just Announced 
 
 
 CORSAIR Partners with Nanoleaf to Bring Smarter Home Integration to iCUE 
 
 
 Noctua presents NA-TPG1 thermal paste guard for AMD AM5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 -End Right SideBar  
 
 End Content  
 Start Content Bottom 
 End Content Bottom 
 
 
  End layout  
  Start Middle Widget  
 End Top Widget  
  Bottom slideshow  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ADATA Legend 960 1TB Review   
 
 
 
 
 ROCCAT Vulcan II Mini Review   
 
 
 
 
 Crucial P3 Plus 1TB Review   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Corsair Sabre RGB Pro Wireless Review   
 
 
 
 
 be quiet! Silent Wings 4 Review   
 
 
 
 
 Turtle Beach React-R Controller Review   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  End Bottom slideshow  
  Start bottom  
 End Bottom  
  start: Footer  
 
 
 
  Start Footer First Region  
 
 
 
 Connect with us 
 YouTube  |  Facebook  |  Twitter  |  LinkedIn  |  Reddit  |  Email 
 
 
 
 Know us more 
 Behind the Scenes  |  Company Links  |  Copyright & Privacy Policy  |  Downloads  |  Review Focus  |  Slogan & Logo History 
 
 
 
 
  End Footer First Region  
  Start Footer Second Region  
 
 
  End Footer Second Region  
  Start Footer third Region  
 
 
  End Footer Third Region  
 
 
 
 End Footer  
  Start Footer Menu  
  End Footer Menu  
 
 
 
  Copyright  
 
 © Since 2005 APH Networks Inc. All trademarks mentioned are the property of their respective owners.  
 
  End Copyright  
  Credit link  
  End Credit link  
 
 
 
  Google map  
  End Google map  
 
 
 
 
