https://aphnetworks.com/reviews/crucial-p3-plus-1tb
For starters, there is nothing that special about owning a brand-new Honda Accord or Toyota Camry, because while they are good cars, they are also easily accessible to the average person.
On the other hand, a Lamborghini Aventador LP 780-4 Ultimae will no doubt impress people everywhere you go, but its base price of over half a million dollars is far beyond the average reach of a working individual.
Therefore, getting something unbelievably cheap has a unique appeal to it.
Recently, my friend tossed me the keys to his 5-speed 1998 Acura Integra that he paid $1500 for.
Four guys, including myself, crowded into the subcompact coupe.
We are all old enough to be out of university and working for a few years now, but I have to admit driving the semi-riced vehicle -- I am far from being the  Fast and Furious  type -- was unbelievably fun around the neighborhood.
It was like we were teenagers again who just got our licenses sneaking out for a night drive with a bunch of friends, and there is a unique enjoyment in operating something this cheap: It does the job, you do not have to use it in a certain way, and it feels fast even though we were still way below the speed limit.
Maybe the way it is to be enjoyed is different, but regardless of which, Crucial recently sent us their P3 Plus 1TB to try out.
This SSD is only $95 at press time, which makes it quite a bargain, considering this is a PCIe 4.0-based NVMe SSD.
We thoroughly tested one to find out.
Our review unit of the Crucial P3 Plus 1TB arrived in a surprisingly large, brown corrugated cardboard box from Brownsville, Texas, USA.
Brownsville is nowhere near any Micron offices.
but this is where Avant Technology is located, which Micron partners with.
If you wonder what is in the box, it is mostly packing paper with the SSD located at the bottom corner of the box, which I think mostly defeats the point of having so much packing material, haha.
Thankfully, using the UPS Saver service, everything arrived in excellent condition to us here in Calgary, Alberta, Canada for our review today.
Crucial's retail package designs have always been about business, and the P3 Plus is no different.
The simple, environmentally friendly box is the same shape and size as everything we have seen before.
It uses a relatively compact, thin square box to deliver the SSD into the hands of the consumers with miscellaneous information printed on the back.
As you can see in our photo above, the box art evokes a strong business feel.
A photo of the Crucial P3 NVMe SSD is shown in front of a gradient blue background.
At the top, you will find Crucial's logo and slogan.
Near the bottom, you will find the P3 Plus model name.
The white strip at the bottom has the product description, PCIe 4.0 NVMe M.2 SSD, and a sticker indicating its capacity.
There is also a multi-language quick start guide that points you to the company's website.
This is it -- out of the box, you will get nothing more than what you need.
Not that we need them anyway, of course.
Page Index  1.
Introduction, Packaging, Specifications  2.
A Closer Look, Test System  3.
Benchmark: AIDA64 Disk Benchmark  4.
Benchmark: ATTO Disk Benchmark  5.
Benchmark: Crystal Disk Mark 8.0  6.
Benchmark: HD Tune Pro 5.70  7.
Benchmark: PassMark PerformanceTest 10  8.
Benchmark: PCMark 10  9.
Benchmark: 3DMark  10.