https://www.techpowerup.com/299395/alphacool-intros-liquid-cooler-and-riser-card-for-m-2-nvme-ssd
[endif]   [if lt IE 9]><script>window.onerror = function(){ return true; }</script><!
Due to their design, however, M.2 NVMe SSDs are only capable of delivering their maximum performance for a short time.
The controller chip heats up extremely quickly and begins to throttle the SSD's performance at an early stage.
To ensure that the full performance of the memory can be used permanently, Alphacool now offers the Core M.2 NVMe PCIe 4.0 Liquid Cooler with digital aRGB illumination.
The Core M.2 NVMe PCIe 4.0 Liquid Cooler features 5 digitally addressable RGB LEDs that create a unique illumination.
The LEDs can be connected to a digital RGB controller or a digital RGB capable mainboard and thus controlled as desired.
The material mix of acrylic, nickel-plated copper and aluminium also gives the cooler a noble design.
Alphacool's Core M.2 NVMe PCIe 4.0 Liquid Cooler is a useful addition to any water cooled system and ensures that the M.2 NVMe SSD can unleash its full potential.
Smart and efficient!
Features Material cooler bottom: nickel-plated copper Material cooler housing: acrylic Material backplate: aluminium Illumination: 5 digital aRGB LEDs Connections: 2x G1/4" Dimensions: 130.7 x 56 x 24.41 mm Compatibility: M.2 NVMe PCIe 4.0 SSD MSRP: 99.98€.
For more information and to purchase, visit  this page .
Wow, that is  overkill .
You only want to cool the controller and not the flash module.
Alot of times the extra space below a gfx in an atx build is wasted space.
Alot of times the extra space below a gfx in an atx build is wasted space.
I don't need a device like that, but I like your way of thinking.
Alot of times the extra space below a gfx in an atx build is wasted space.
I like that thought... although that's why micro-ATX and mini-ITX exist.
But it's PCIe 4.
Looking at you thermaltake .
I agree with the person who said to use the same empty PCI Express space for a small, compact pump/reservoir.
The biggest lesson I've learned about GPU cards, and slots lately.
I will never buy a game card again.
For some reason, I don't know why builders keep making the cards bigger.
Sure there's heat and fans, but for now, I want my PCIe space back.
I've learned that the EVGA 3090 is hard to come by - a great card, but with or without a water block.
On the motherboard, I noticed that it takes up space.
On my motherboard with 7 slots, 2 for the 3090 and 2 open (one between the 3090 and the last slot).
Personally, it's a broken use of space.
So professional cards only, with professional water blocks.
All rights reserved.
All trademarks used are properties of their respective owners.